README.md, before:

# Audio Super-Resolution
A project concerning the super-resolution of audio signals i.e. increasing the sample rate of an audio signal. 

## Dataset
The dataset used will be VCTK, but if there's enough time to research more about super-resolution applied on music, the dataset could be either MagnaTagATune or it could be generated with the Python module [Spotipy](https://spotipy.readthedocs.io/en/2.19.0/) which works with the Spotify API.


## Converting a spectrogram to audio
The Python module [librosa](https://librosa.org/doc/latest/index.html) can transform an audio signal into a spectrogram and vice-versa
by using the [Griffin-Lim algorithm](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61132574/can-i-convert-spectrograms-generated-with-librosa-back-to-audio).


## Main references
 - [X] [Audio Super-Resolution Using Neural Nets](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1708.00853v1.pdf)
 - [X] [Time-frequency Networks For Audio Super-Resolution](https://teckyianlim.me/audio-sr/res/3828.pdf)
 - [ ] [WSRGlow: A Glow-based Waveform Generative Model for Audio Super-Resolution](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.08507)
 - [ ] [Adversarial Training for Speech Super-Resolution](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/332201260_Adversarial_Training_for_Speech_Super-Resolution)
 - [ ] [Bandwidth extension on raw audio via generative adversarial networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1903.09027.pdf)

## Related papers that could be used as references

### Audio signals
 - [Phase-aware music super-resolution using generative adversarial networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.04506.pdf)
 - [MidiNet: A Convolutional Generative Adversarial Network for Symbolic-domain Music Generation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.10847.pdf)
 - [On the evaluation of generative models in music](https://musicinformatics.gatech.edu/wp-content_nondefault/uploads/2018/11/postprint.pdf)
 - [INCO-GAN: Variable-Length Music Generation Method Based
on Inception Model-Based Conditional GAN](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwj62YWr14_0AhXch_0HHf0dDckQFnoECAQQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.mdpi.com%2F2227-7390%2F9%2F4%2F387%2Fpdf&usg=AOvVaw1Bt1-i7aM7Fp8OmwRJ2GtX)
 - [Self-Attention for Audio Super-Resolution](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2108.11637v1.pdf)
 - [On Filter Generalization for Music Bandwidth Extension Using Deep Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.07274v2.pdf)
 - [NU-Wave: A Diffusion Probabilistic Model for Neural Audio Upsampling](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.02321v2.pdf)
 - [Temporal FiLM: Capturing Long-Range Sequence Dependencies with Feature-Wise Modulation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.06628v3.pdf)
 - [Learning Continuous Representation of Audio for Arbitrary Scale Super Resolution](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2111.00195.pdf)
 - [An investigation of pre-upsampling generative modelling and Generative Adversarial Networks in audio super resolution](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.14994.pdf)
 - [Super-Resolution for Music Signals Using Generative Adversarial Networks](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/354040914_Super-Resolution_for_Music_Signals_Using_Generative_Adversarial_Networks)


### Image super-resolution 
 - [Photo-Realistic Single Image Super-Resolution Using a Generative Adversarial
Network](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.04802.pdf)

### Time-series
 - [Imaging Time-Series to Improve Classification and Imputation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.00327.pdf)

### Generative models
 - [Wasserstein GANs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1701.07875.pdf)
 - [STGAN: A Unified Selective Transfer Network
for Arbitrary Image Attribute Editing](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.09709.pdf)

### Possibly useful
 - [Audio Super-Resolution Using Analysis Dictionary
Learning](http://personal.ee.surrey.ac.uk/Personal/W.Wang/papers/DongWC_DSP_2015.pdf)

### Articles
 - [Using Deep-Learning to Reconstruct High-Resolution Audio](https://blog.insightdatascience.com/using-deep-learning-to-reconstruct-high-resolution-audio-29deee8b7ccd)

## Possible uses
 - increasing sample rate of music
 - voice-over-IP
 - improved speech recognition
 - remastering audio from old movies

## Math and signal processing links 
 - [What is convolution? This is the easiest way to understand](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QmcoPYUfbJ8)
 - [Valerio Velardo's Audio Signal Processing for Machine Learning Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCwMQJnKk2c&list=PL-wATfeyAMNqIee7cH3q1bh4QJFAaeNv0)
 - [Steve Brunton's Fourier Analysis Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNC0jxb0OxE&list=PLMrJAkhIeNNT_Xh3Oy0Y4LTj0Oxo8GqsC)
 - [Sampling, Aliasing & Nyquist Theorem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yWqrx08UeUs)
 - [Interpolation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RpxoN9-i7Jc)
 

## To do:

### Implementation of "Audio Super Resolution Using Neural Networks (Kuleshov, Enam, Ermon, 2017)"

![Data generation, training and testing diagram](Paper/AudioSuperResolution/diagram.png)  

 - [X] Write the data generator scripts (obtaining the low-res/high-res pairs of audio clips)
 - [X] Write the training/testing scripts 
 - [X] train with the NRMSE normalized by the mean with more epochs --> loss approaches nan value
 - [X] try to write the NRMSE by normalizing with the range (max-min, but handle the max=min case by computing the RMSE divided by the mean of the values) --> loss approaches nan value again
 - [X] retrain with both of those versions, with LeakyReLU instead of PReLU --> loss approaches nan value again
 - [X] replace the Adam optimizer with RMSprop --> loss approaches nan value again
 - [X] reduce the number of layers in the model --> loss approaches nan value again 
 - [X] try with MSE and with both Adam and RMSprop
 - [X] read more about why the loss approaches the nan value during training when using NRMSE as the loss function
	 -  usually, it is either because of an exploding gradient or a vanishing gradient (in my case, I accidentally used NRMSE as a loss function instead of using it only as a metric, the number was so small that Keras displayed the loss as being "nan")
	 - relevant StackOverflow post: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37232782/nan-loss-when-training-regression-network 
 - [X] create plots with the training and validation loss
 - [X] train 100 epochs
 - [X] train 1000 epochs
 - [X] adjust the data split to use all of the data for training/validation/testing
 - [ ] Read about the n_fft parameter used in librosa's STFT implementation
 - [ ] Finish testing/prediction script:
	- [ ] Downsample test audio track
	- [ ] Feed chunks of 256 samples of the audio to the model 
	- [ ] Display spectrogram of the output

Commit message:

Display subplots with the low-res/high-res/super-res spectrograms

README.md, after:

# Audio Super-Resolution
A project concerning the super-resolution of audio signals i.e. increasing the sample rate of an audio signal. 

## Dataset
The dataset used will be VCTK, but if there's enough time to research more about super-resolution applied on music, the dataset could be either MagnaTagATune or it could be generated with the Python module [Spotipy](https://spotipy.readthedocs.io/en/2.19.0/) which works with the Spotify API.


## Converting a spectrogram to audio
The Python module [librosa](https://librosa.org/doc/latest/index.html) can transform an audio signal into a spectrogram and vice-versa
by using the [Griffin-Lim algorithm](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61132574/can-i-convert-spectrograms-generated-with-librosa-back-to-audio).


## Main references
 - [X] [Audio Super-Resolution Using Neural Nets](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1708.00853v1.pdf)
 - [X] [Time-frequency Networks For Audio Super-Resolution](https://teckyianlim.me/audio-sr/res/3828.pdf)
 - [ ] [WSRGlow: A Glow-based Waveform Generative Model for Audio Super-Resolution](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.08507)
 - [ ] [Adversarial Training for Speech Super-Resolution](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/332201260_Adversarial_Training_for_Speech_Super-Resolution)
 - [ ] [Bandwidth extension on raw audio via generative adversarial networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1903.09027.pdf)

## Related papers that could be used as references

### Audio signals
 - [Phase-aware music super-resolution using generative adversarial networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.04506.pdf)
 - [MidiNet: A Convolutional Generative Adversarial Network for Symbolic-domain Music Generation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.10847.pdf)
 - [On the evaluation of generative models in music](https://musicinformatics.gatech.edu/wp-content_nondefault/uploads/2018/11/postprint.pdf)
 - [INCO-GAN: Variable-Length Music Generation Method Based
on Inception Model-Based Conditional GAN](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwj62YWr14_0AhXch_0HHf0dDckQFnoECAQQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.mdpi.com%2F2227-7390%2F9%2F4%2F387%2Fpdf&usg=AOvVaw1Bt1-i7aM7Fp8OmwRJ2GtX)
 - [Self-Attention for Audio Super-Resolution](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2108.11637v1.pdf)
 - [On Filter Generalization for Music Bandwidth Extension Using Deep Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.07274v2.pdf)
 - [NU-Wave: A Diffusion Probabilistic Model for Neural Audio Upsampling](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.02321v2.pdf)
 - [Temporal FiLM: Capturing Long-Range Sequence Dependencies with Feature-Wise Modulation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.06628v3.pdf)
 - [Learning Continuous Representation of Audio for Arbitrary Scale Super Resolution](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2111.00195.pdf)
 - [An investigation of pre-upsampling generative modelling and Generative Adversarial Networks in audio super resolution](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.14994.pdf)
 - [Super-Resolution for Music Signals Using Generative Adversarial Networks](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/354040914_Super-Resolution_for_Music_Signals_Using_Generative_Adversarial_Networks)


### Image super-resolution 
 - [Photo-Realistic Single Image Super-Resolution Using a Generative Adversarial
Network](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.04802.pdf)

### Time-series
 - [Imaging Time-Series to Improve Classification and Imputation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.00327.pdf)

### Generative models
 - [Wasserstein GANs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1701.07875.pdf)
 - [STGAN: A Unified Selective Transfer Network
for Arbitrary Image Attribute Editing](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.09709.pdf)

### Possibly useful
 - [Audio Super-Resolution Using Analysis Dictionary
Learning](http://personal.ee.surrey.ac.uk/Personal/W.Wang/papers/DongWC_DSP_2015.pdf)

### Articles
 - [Using Deep-Learning to Reconstruct High-Resolution Audio](https://blog.insightdatascience.com/using-deep-learning-to-reconstruct-high-resolution-audio-29deee8b7ccd)

## Possible uses
 - increasing sample rate of music
 - voice-over-IP
 - improved speech recognition
 - remastering audio from old movies

## Math and signal processing links 
 - [What is convolution? This is the easiest way to understand](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QmcoPYUfbJ8)
 - [Valerio Velardo's Audio Signal Processing for Machine Learning Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCwMQJnKk2c&list=PL-wATfeyAMNqIee7cH3q1bh4QJFAaeNv0)
 - [Steve Brunton's Fourier Analysis Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNC0jxb0OxE&list=PLMrJAkhIeNNT_Xh3Oy0Y4LTj0Oxo8GqsC)
 - [Sampling, Aliasing & Nyquist Theorem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yWqrx08UeUs)
 - [Interpolation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RpxoN9-i7Jc)
 

## To do:

### Implementation of "Audio Super Resolution Using Neural Networks (Kuleshov, Enam, Ermon, 2017)"

![Data generation, training and testing diagram](Paper/AudioSuperResolution/diagram.png)  

 - [X] Write the data generator scripts (obtaining the low-res/high-res pairs of audio clips)
 - [X] Write the training/testing scripts 
 - [X] train with the NRMSE normalized by the mean with more epochs --> loss approaches nan value
 - [X] try to write the NRMSE by normalizing with the range (max-min, but handle the max=min case by computing the RMSE divided by the mean of the values) --> loss approaches nan value again
 - [X] retrain with both of those versions, with LeakyReLU instead of PReLU --> loss approaches nan value again
 - [X] replace the Adam optimizer with RMSprop --> loss approaches nan value again
 - [X] reduce the number of layers in the model --> loss approaches nan value again 
 - [X] try with MSE and with both Adam and RMSprop
 - [X] read more about why the loss approaches the nan value during training when using NRMSE as the loss function
	 -  usually, it is either because of an exploding gradient or a vanishing gradient (in my case, I accidentally used NRMSE as a loss function instead of using it only as a metric, the number was so small that Keras displayed the loss as being "nan")
	 - relevant StackOverflow post: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37232782/nan-loss-when-training-regression-network 
 - [X] create plots with the training and validation loss
 - [X] train 100 epochs
 - [X] train 1000 epochs
 - [X] adjust the data split to use all of the data for training/validation/testing
 - [ ] Read about the n_fft parameter used in librosa's STFT implementation
 - [X] Finish testing/prediction script:
	- [X] Downsample test audio track
	- [X] Feed chunks of 256 samples of the audio to the model 
	- [X] Display spectrogram of the output
	- [ ] Save the low-res/high-res/super-res numpy arrays as audio and compare them
